docs/Supported-Emulators-and-Ports.md, before:

---
title: Supported Emulators and Ports
category: Supported Systems
layout: withsidenav
---

# Supported Emulators and Ports

This is a list of supported systems and the emulators/cores to run them, it will be updated regularly.

Note that because of lack of time, not all of these systems have been thoroughly tested, help is always appreciated if you want to test them and report back!

Every system needs to have the correct folder structure inside the base path (the base ROM path is `/storage/roms`), for example Super Nintendo needs ROMS inside `/storage/roms/snes`. For ports this is usually `/storage/roms/ports/[port]`.
This path is actually a second partition on your SD card, for more information on how to add your games please refer to this article: Getting-to-Know-351ELEC#adding-games

You will also find the correct extensions, almost all cores support .zip and .7z files as well as those listed.

## Fully Playable Systems

The **bold** one is the default one.

|&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;System&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;|&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;Core/Emu&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;|ROM Path|Extension| 
|---|---|---|---|
|AMIGA|**puae**<br />amiberry<br />uae4arm|amiga| .zip .uae .adf .dms .fdi .ipf .adz .lha .hdf .hdz|
|AMIGA CD32|**puae**<br />uae4arm|amigacd32| .iso .cue .zip .lha|
|AMSTRAD CPC|**crocods**<br />cap32|amstradcpc| .dsk .sna .tap .cdt .kcr .voc .m3u .zip .7z|
|[ARCADE](Arcade)|**mame2003_plus**<br />mame2000<br />mame2010<br />mame2015<br />fbneo<br />fbalpha2012<br />AdvanceMame|arcade| .zip .7z|
|ATARI 800|**atari800**|atari800| .rom .xfd .atr .atx .cdm .cas .bin .a52 .xex .zip .7z|
|ATARI 2600|**stella-2014**<br />stella|atari2600| .a26 .bin .zip .7z|
|ATARI 5200|**atari800**|atari5200| .rom .xfd .atr .atx .cdm .cas .bin .a52 .xex .zip .7z|
|ATARI 7800|**prosystem**|atari7800| .a78 .bin .zip .7z|
|ATARI LYNX|**handy**<br />beetle_lynx|atarilynx|.lnx .zip .7z|
|ATARI ST|**hatari**<br />HATARISA|atarist|.st .msa .stx .dim .ipf .m3u .zip .7z|
|SAMMY<br />ATOMISWAVE|**flycast**|atomiswave| .lst .bin .dat .zip .7z|
|BANDAI<br />WONDERSWAN|**beetle_wswan**|wonderswan| .ws .zip .7z |
|BANDAI<br />WONDERSWAN COLOR|**beetle_wswan**|wonderswancolor| .wsc .zip .7z|
|COLECOVISION|**bluemsx**|coleco| .bin .col .rom .zip .7z|
|COMMODORE 16<br />(PLUS/4)|**vice_xplus4**|c16| .d(64, 71, 80, 81, 82, 6z, 7z, 8z) .g(64, 41, 6z, 4z) .x64 .t64 .tap .prg .p00 .crt .bin .gz  x6z .cmd .m3u .vsf .nib .nbz|
|COMMODORE 64|**vice_x64**|c64| .d(64, 71, 80, 81, 82, 6z, 7z, 8z) .g(64, 41, 6z, 4z) .x64 .t64 .tap .prg .p00 .crt .bin .gz .x6z .cmd .m3u .vsf .nib .nbz|
|COMMODORE 128|**vice_x128**|c128| .d(64, 71, 80, 81, 82, 6z, 7z, 8z) .g(64, 41, 6z, 4z) .x64 .t64 .tap .prg .p00 .crt .bin .gz .x6z .cmd .m3u .vsf .nib .nbz|
|COMMODORE VIC-20|**vice_xvic**|vic20| .20 .40 .60 .a0 .b0 .d(64, 71, 80, 81, 82, 6z, 7z, 8z) .g(64, 41, 6z, 4z) .x64 .t64 .tap .prg .p00 .crt .bin .gz .x6z .cmd .m3u .vsf .nib .nbz|
|DAPHNE|**Hypseus**<br />daphne|daphne| no extension|
|[FINALBURN NEO](System-FBNeo)|**fbneo**<br />mame2003_plus<br />fbalpha2012|fbneo| .zip .7z|
|MATTEL<br />INTELLIVISION|**freeintv**|intellivision| .int .bin .rom .zip .7z|
|[MAME](System-MAME)|**mame2003_plus**<br />AdvanceMame<br />mame2000<br />mame2010<br />mame2015<br />fbneo<br />fbalpha2012|mame| .zip .7z|
|MSX|**bluemsx**<br />fmsx|msx| .dsk .mx1 .mx2 .rom .zip .7z|
|MSX2|**bluemsx**<br />fmsx|msx2| .dsk .mx1 .mx2 .rom .zip .7z|
|[NEC<br />PC 9800](System-PC-98)|**np2kai**<br />nekop2|pc98| .d98 .zip .98d .fdi .fdd .2hd .tfd .d88 .88d .hdm .xdf .dup .hdi .thd .nhd .hdd .hdn|
|NEC<br />PC ENGINE|**beetle_pce_fast**<br />beetle_supergrafx|pcengine| .7z .ccd .chd .cue .pce .zip|
|NEC<br />PC ENGINE CD|**beetle_pce_fast**<br />beetle_supergrafx|pcenginecd| .pce .cue .ccd .iso .img .bin .chd .zip .7z|
|NEC<br />SUPERGRAFX|**beetle_supergrafx**<br />beetle_pce_fast|sgfx| .pce .sgx .cue .ccd .chd .zip .7z|
|NEC<br />TURBOGRAFX 16|**beetle_pce_fast**<br />beetle_supergrafx|tg16| .pce .bin .zip .7z|
|NEC<br />TURBOGRAFX CD|**beetle_pce_fast**<br />beetle_supergrafx|tg16cd| .pce .cue .ccd .iso .img .bin .chd .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM|**fceumm**<br />nestopia|nes| .nes .unif .unf .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />FAMICOM|**nestopia**<br />fceumm|famicom| .nes .unif .unf .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />FAMICOM DISK SYSTEM|**nestopia**<br />fceumm|fds| .fds .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />GAME BOY|**gambatte**<br />sameboy<br />gearboy<br />tgbdual<br />mgba<br />vbam|gb| .gb .gbc .zip .7z|
|[NINTENDO<br />GAME BOY ADVANCE](System-Game-Boy-Advance)|**mgba**<br />beetle_gba<br />gpsp<br />vbam<br />vba_next|gba| .gba .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />GAME BOY COLOR|**gambatte**<br />sameboy<br />gearboy<br />tgbdual<br />mgba<br />vbam|gbc| .gbc .gb .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />GAME & WATCH|**gw**|gameandwatch| .mgw .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />POKÉMON MINI|**pokemini**|pokemini| .min .zip .7z|
|[NINTENDO<br />SUPER NINTENDO](System-Super-Nintendo-Entertainment-System)|**snes9x**<br />snes9x2002<br />snes9x2005_plus<br />snes9x2010<br />beetle_supafaust|snes| .smc .sfc .swc .fig .bs .st .gd3 .gd7 .dx2 .bsx .zip .7z|
|[NINTENDO<br />SUPER FAMICOM](System-Super-Nintendo-Entertainment-System)|**snes9x**<br />snes9x2002<br />snes9x2005_plus<br />snes9x2010<br />beetle_supafaust|sfc| .smc .sfc .swc .fig .bs .st .gd3 .gd7 .dx2 .bsx .zip .7z|
|[NINTENDO<br />SUPER NINTENDO MSU-1](System-Super-Nintendo-Entertainment-System)|**snes9x**<br />beetle_supafaust|snesmsu1| .smc .fig .bs .st .sfc .gd3 .gd7 .dx2 .bsx .swc .zip .7z|
|[NINTENDO<br />SATELLAVIEW](System-Super-Nintendo-Entertainment-System)|**snes9x**<br />snes9x2002<br />snes9x2005_plus<br />snes9x2010|satellaview| .smc .sfc .swc .fig .bs .st .gd3 .gd7 .dx2 .bsx .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />VIRTUAL BOY|**beetle_vb**|virtualboy| .vb .zip .7z|
|MAGNAVOX<br />ODYSSEY 2|**o2em**|odyssey| .bin .BIN .zip .7z|
|PHILIPS<br />VIDEOPAC|**o2em**|videopac| .bin .BIN .zip .7z|
|[PC (DOS x86)](System-MS-DOS)|**dosbox_pure**<br />dosbox_svn|pc| .dosz, disk images (iso, cue, img, ima, vhd) can be put into the .dosz|
|[PICO-8](System-Pico-8)|**pico8**|pico-8|.png .p8|
|[SONY<br />PLAYSTATION](System-Sony-PlayStation)|**pcsx_rearmed**<br />duckstation<br />swanstation|psx| .iso .bin .cue .img .pbp .mdf .toc .cbn .m3u .ccd .chd|
|SONY<br />PSP MINIS|**PPSSPPSDL**<br />ppsspp| pspminis | .iso .cso .pbp|
|SEGA<br />GAMEGEAR|**gearsystem**<br />genesis_plus_gx<br />picodrive<br />smsplus|gamegear| .gg .bin .gg .zip .7z|
|SEGA<br />GENESIS|**genesis_plus_gx**<br />genesis_plus_gx_wide<br />picodrive|genesis| .gen .md .sg .smd .bin .zip .7z|
|SEGA<br />NAOMI|**flycast**|naomi| .lst .bin .dat .zip .7z|
|SEGA<br />MASTER SYSTEM|**gearsystem**<br />genesis_plus_gx<br />picodrive<br />smsplus|mastersystem| .sms .bin .zip .7z|
|SEGA<br />MEGA DRIVE|**genesis_plus_gx**<br />genesis_plus_gx_wide<br />picodrive|megadrive<br />megadrive-japan| .gen .bin .md .sg .smd .zip .7z|
|SEGA 32X|**picodrive**|sega32x|.32x .7z .bin .md .smd .zip|
|SEGA CD|**genesis_plus_gx**<br />picodrive|segacd| .bin .chd .cue .iso|
|SEGA MEGA CD|**genesis_plus_gx**<br />picodrive|megacd| .bin .chd .cue .iso|
|SEGA<br />SG-1000|**gearsystem**<br />genesis_plus_gx<br />picodrive|sg-1000|.7z .bin .sg .zip|
|SEGA<br />SC-3000|**bluemsx**|sc-3000| .sg .bin .zip .7z|
|SNK<br />NEO-GEO|**fbneo**<br />mame2003<br />fbalpha2012|neogeo| .neo .7z .zip|
|SNK<br />NEO-GEO CD|**neocd**<br />fbneo|neocd| .chd .cue .iso|
|SNK<br />NEO-GEO POCKET|**beetle_ngp**<br />race|ngp| .ngp .ngc .zip .7z|
|SNK<br />NEO-GEO POCKET COLOR|**beetle_ngp**<br />race|ngpc| .ngc .zip .7z|
|WATARA<br />SUPERVISION|**potator**|supervision|.sv .zip|
|WELBACK HOLDINGS<br />MEGADUCK|**sameduck**|megaduck|.bin .zip .7z|
|TIC-80|**tic-80**|tic-80|.tic|
|UZEBOX|**uzem**|uzebox|.uze|
|GCE<br />VECTREX|**vecx**|vectrex| .bin .gam .vec .zip .7z|
|[SHARP<br />X68000](System-X68000)|**px68k**|x68000| .dim .img .d88 .88d .hdm .dup .2hd .xdf .hdf .cmd .m3u .zip .7z|
|SINCLAIR<br />ZX81|**81**|zx81|.tzx .p .zip .7z|
|SINCLAIR<br />ZX SPECTRUM|**fuse**|zxspectrum| .tzx .tap .z80 .rzx .scl .trd .zip .7z|

You can also view this (WIP) spreadsheet with information for each core, as well as if it requires bios or not: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1T962LmL0ci7Hs88TZT3iMtqdvzug4tL3ayTb0uoxijQ](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1T962LmL0ci7Hs88TZT3iMtqdvzug4tL3ayTb0uoxijQ)

Please Note that MAME and FBA screen ratio are not optimized as they should have been optimized on game basis (some are 4:3, some alre 3:2 some are vertical), so we decided to leave the default options.

## Low Performance Systems
These platforms, due to hardware limitation, are included and worked on, but will never work perfectly.
Some games/systems work almost perfectly, some others they may never work smoothly.

|System|Status|Core/Emu|ROM Path|Extension| 
|---|---|---|---|---|
|3DO|Only low performance|**opera**|3do|.iso .cue .bin .chd .7z|
|J2ME|Quite smooth playing|**freej2me**|j2me|.jar|
|NEC<br />PC-FX|Only low performance|**beetle_pcfx**|pcfx| .img .iso .ccd .cue| .img .iso .ccd .cue|
|NINTENDO N64|Some games run well, others are unplayable|mupen64plus<br />mupen64plus_next<br />**parallel_n64**<br />parallel_n64_gln64|n64| .z64 .n64 .v64|
|NINTENDO DS|2D Games almost fully playable|**drastic**|nds| .nds .zip|
|SEGA DREAMCAST|Some games run well, others are unplayable|**flycast**|dreamcast| .cdi .gdi .chd .zip .7z|
|SEGA SATURN|Most games are unplayable|**yabasanshiro**|saturn|.bin .cue .iso .chd .mdf|
|SONY PSP|Many games run well, especially with frameskip. Some games are unplayable |**PPSSPPSDL**<br />ppsspp|psp| .cso .iso .pbp|

*Games can also run internally from the gamedata/ppsspp/psp/GAMEDATA folder, this also allows DLC and custom textures to be added.

## Game Engines

|&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;System&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;|&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;Core/Emu&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;|ROM Path|Extension| 
|---|---|---|---|
|[DOOM](System-Doom)|**lzdoom**<br />prboom|doom|[.doom](System-Doom#how-to-create-a-doom-file)|
|EASYRPG|**easyrpg**|easyrpg| .ldb|
|OPENBOR|**openbor**|openbor| .pak|
|[SCUMMVM](System-ScummVM)|**scummvmsa**<br />scummvm|scummvm/games| .sh .svm .scummvm |
|SOLARUS|**solarus**|solarus|.solarus|
|[WOLFENSTEIN 3D](System-Wolfenstein-3D)|**ecwolf**|ecwolf|[.ecwolf](System-Wolfenstein-3D#how-to-create-a-ecwolf-file)|

## Ports
Some ports may be part of RetroArch as a core, but in this section is made to reflect the PORTS section in EmulationStation.

| Port |  Core/Emu  | ROM Path  |  Extension | 
|---|---|---|---|
|2048|2048|
|[CANNONBALL](Port-Cannonball)|cannonball|ports/cannonball/|.game .88|
|CAVESTORY|nxengine|ports/CaveStory/|.exe|
|COMMANDER KEEN|Commander Genius|ports/cgenius/games/keen1<br/>...<br/>ports/cgenius/games/keen9|.exe .ck|
|DIABLO|devilutionx|ports/diablo/|diabdat.mpq|
|DINOTHAWR|dinothawr|
|DUKE NUKEM 3D|eduke32|ports/eduke/ |.rts .grp|
|FLASHBACK|reminiscence| ports/reminiscence/ |.map .aba .seq lev|
|HYDRA CASTLE LABYRINTH|hcl|
|MR. BOOM (Bomberman Clone)|mrboom|
|PRINCE OF PERSIA|SDLPoP|
|TYRIAN|OpenTyrian|ports/opentyrian/|Content of [tyrian21.zip](https://github.com/opentyrian/opentyrian/wiki/Downloads#other)|
|QUAKE|tyrquake|ports/quake/id1/|.pak|
|RICK DANGEROUS|xrick|ports/xrick/|Content of data.zip|
|[VVVVVV](Port-VVVVVV)|VVVVVV|ports/VVVVVV/|data.zip|

If a game is not listed here you can check the community contribution section.

However we evaluate every user port contribution, for more information check here: Contributing-to-351ELEC#contributing-community-built-packages

## Community built packages

This is an incomplete list of the community contributed packages, the full raw list can be found [here](https://github.com/351ELEC/351ELEC/blob/main/metadata/packages.cfg).

|Game name|port name|Notes|
|---|---|---|
|Cave Story|cavestory|
|Drastic|drastic|See the [systems section](Supported-Emulators-and-Ports#low-performance-systems)|
|Block Attack|blockattack|
|Return to Castle Wolfenstein|iortcw|[Guide](https://github.com/JohnnyonFlame/handheld-iortcw/wiki/Installation---ArkOS)|
|The Ur-Quan Masters|uqm|
|SuperTux|supertux|
|C-Dogs|cdogs-sdl|

This packages are releases as-it-is, however you may join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/6XH8Q8RS) to have a chance to discuss them.
You may also request a port however your request may also be turned down so please do not be upset if this does happen.
You can even [contribute](Contributing-to-351ELEC) and port your favorite game.

## Collections

|&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;Platform&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;|&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;Core/Emu&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;|ROM Path|Extensions|
|---|---|---|---|
|CPS1|fbalpha2012<br />**fbneo**<br />mame2003_plus<br />mame2010<br />mame2015<br />AdvanceMame|cps1|.zip .7z|
|CPS2|fbalpha2012<br />**fbneo**<br />mame2003_plus<br />mame2010<br />mame2015<br />AdvanceMame|cps2|.zip .7z|
|CPS3|fbalpha2012<br />**fbneo**<br />mame2003_plus<br />mame2010<br />mame2015<br />AdvanceMame|cps3|.zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />GAME BOY HACKS|**gambatte**<br />sameboy<br />mgba<br />tgbdual<br />gearboy<br />vbam|gbh|.gb .gbc .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />GAME BOY COLOR HACKS|**gambatte**<br />sameboy<br />mgba<br />tgbdual<br />gearboy<br />vbam|gbch|.gbc .gb .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />GAME BOY ADVANCE HACKS|**mgba**<br />gpsp<br />vba_next<br />vbam|gbah| 	.gba .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />ENTARTAINMENT SYSTEM HACKS|fceumm<br />**nestopia**|nesh|.nes .unif .unf .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />SUPER NINTENDO HACKS|**snes9x**<br />snes9x2010<br />snes9x2002<br />snes9x2005_plus<br />beetle_supafaust|snesh|.smc .sfc .swc .fig .bs .st .gd3 .gd7 .dx2 .bsx .zip .7z|
|SEGA<br />GAME GEAR HACKS|**gearsystem**<br />genesis_plus_gx<br />picodrive<br />smsplus|gamegearh|.gg .bin .gg .zip .7z|
|SEGA<br />GENESIS HACKS|**genesis_plus_gx**<br />genesis_plus_gx_wide<br />picodrive|genh|.gen .md .sg .smd .bin .zip .7z|

***

# BIOS 
Some platforms need bios files, these should go in /storage/roms/bios.
You can check which bios you’re missing directly on your device by pressing START, Games Settings, Missing Bios.

## What Doesn't Run
* SONY PLAYSTATION 2
* SONY PLAYSTATION 3
* SONY PLAYSTATION 4
* NINTENDO GAMECUBE
* NINTENDO 3DS
* NINTENDO WII/U
* MICROSOFT XBOX (any)
* ATARI JAGUAR
* ANYTHING NEWER

## Ending Notes
You can also view this (WIP) spreadsheet with information for each core, as well as if it requires bios or not: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1T962LmL0ci7Hs88TZT3iMtqdvzug4tL3ayTb0uoxijQ](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1T962LmL0ci7Hs88TZT3iMtqdvzug4tL3ayTb0uoxijQ)

## Credit
Thank you to @XargonWan, and the 351ELEC community for putting this page together.
Thank you to EmuELEC for the sources.

Commit message:

Clarifying how the GAMES partition relates to base ROM path
Mirrors changes made on Github Wiki, before I was made aware of this new wiki: https://github.com/351ELEC/351ELEC/wiki/Supported-Emulators-and-Ports/_compare/4a2f58a7b0cac641e4f06b4fd444178cfc9fa50d...1dd1a62527bb461c075eecf4a6146c588c0dc94c

docs/Supported-Emulators-and-Ports.md, after:

---
title: Supported Emulators and Ports
category: Supported Systems
layout: withsidenav
---

# Supported Emulators and Ports

This is a list of supported systems and the emulators/cores to run them, it will be updated regularly.

Note that because of lack of time, not all of these systems have been thoroughly tested, help is always appreciated if you want to test them and report back!

Every system needs to have the correct folder structure inside the base path (the base ROM path is `/storage/roms`), for example Super Nintendo needs ROMS inside `/storage/roms/snes`. For ports this is usually `/storage/roms/ports/[port]`.

Note that if you are adding games manually to your microSD card, you will be accessing the `GAMES` partition. This partition directly corresponds to the base ROM path. For example on the microSD card Super Nintendo ROMS need to be in the `/snes` folder in the `GAMES` partition, which corresponds to `/storage/roms/snes`.

For more information on how to add your games please refer to this article: Getting-to-Know-351ELEC#adding-games

You will also find the correct extensions, almost all cores support .zip and .7z files as well as those listed.

## Fully Playable Systems

The **bold** one is the default one.

|&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;System&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;|&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;Core/Emu&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;|ROM Path|Extension| 
|---|---|---|---|
|AMIGA|**puae**<br />amiberry<br />uae4arm|amiga| .zip .uae .adf .dms .fdi .ipf .adz .lha .hdf .hdz|
|AMIGA CD32|**puae**<br />uae4arm|amigacd32| .iso .cue .zip .lha|
|AMSTRAD CPC|**crocods**<br />cap32|amstradcpc| .dsk .sna .tap .cdt .kcr .voc .m3u .zip .7z|
|[ARCADE](Arcade)|**mame2003_plus**<br />mame2000<br />mame2010<br />mame2015<br />fbneo<br />fbalpha2012<br />AdvanceMame|arcade| .zip .7z|
|ATARI 800|**atari800**|atari800| .rom .xfd .atr .atx .cdm .cas .bin .a52 .xex .zip .7z|
|ATARI 2600|**stella-2014**<br />stella|atari2600| .a26 .bin .zip .7z|
|ATARI 5200|**atari800**|atari5200| .rom .xfd .atr .atx .cdm .cas .bin .a52 .xex .zip .7z|
|ATARI 7800|**prosystem**|atari7800| .a78 .bin .zip .7z|
|ATARI LYNX|**handy**<br />beetle_lynx|atarilynx|.lnx .zip .7z|
|ATARI ST|**hatari**<br />HATARISA|atarist|.st .msa .stx .dim .ipf .m3u .zip .7z|
|SAMMY<br />ATOMISWAVE|**flycast**|atomiswave| .lst .bin .dat .zip .7z|
|BANDAI<br />WONDERSWAN|**beetle_wswan**|wonderswan| .ws .zip .7z |
|BANDAI<br />WONDERSWAN COLOR|**beetle_wswan**|wonderswancolor| .wsc .zip .7z|
|COLECOVISION|**bluemsx**|coleco| .bin .col .rom .zip .7z|
|COMMODORE 16<br />(PLUS/4)|**vice_xplus4**|c16| .d(64, 71, 80, 81, 82, 6z, 7z, 8z) .g(64, 41, 6z, 4z) .x64 .t64 .tap .prg .p00 .crt .bin .gz  x6z .cmd .m3u .vsf .nib .nbz|
|COMMODORE 64|**vice_x64**|c64| .d(64, 71, 80, 81, 82, 6z, 7z, 8z) .g(64, 41, 6z, 4z) .x64 .t64 .tap .prg .p00 .crt .bin .gz .x6z .cmd .m3u .vsf .nib .nbz|
|COMMODORE 128|**vice_x128**|c128| .d(64, 71, 80, 81, 82, 6z, 7z, 8z) .g(64, 41, 6z, 4z) .x64 .t64 .tap .prg .p00 .crt .bin .gz .x6z .cmd .m3u .vsf .nib .nbz|
|COMMODORE VIC-20|**vice_xvic**|vic20| .20 .40 .60 .a0 .b0 .d(64, 71, 80, 81, 82, 6z, 7z, 8z) .g(64, 41, 6z, 4z) .x64 .t64 .tap .prg .p00 .crt .bin .gz .x6z .cmd .m3u .vsf .nib .nbz|
|DAPHNE|**Hypseus**<br />daphne|daphne| no extension|
|[FINALBURN NEO](System-FBNeo)|**fbneo**<br />mame2003_plus<br />fbalpha2012|fbneo| .zip .7z|
|MATTEL<br />INTELLIVISION|**freeintv**|intellivision| .int .bin .rom .zip .7z|
|[MAME](System-MAME)|**mame2003_plus**<br />AdvanceMame<br />mame2000<br />mame2010<br />mame2015<br />fbneo<br />fbalpha2012|mame| .zip .7z|
|MSX|**bluemsx**<br />fmsx|msx| .dsk .mx1 .mx2 .rom .zip .7z|
|MSX2|**bluemsx**<br />fmsx|msx2| .dsk .mx1 .mx2 .rom .zip .7z|
|[NEC<br />PC 9800](System-PC-98)|**np2kai**<br />nekop2|pc98| .d98 .zip .98d .fdi .fdd .2hd .tfd .d88 .88d .hdm .xdf .dup .hdi .thd .nhd .hdd .hdn|
|NEC<br />PC ENGINE|**beetle_pce_fast**<br />beetle_supergrafx|pcengine| .7z .ccd .chd .cue .pce .zip|
|NEC<br />PC ENGINE CD|**beetle_pce_fast**<br />beetle_supergrafx|pcenginecd| .pce .cue .ccd .iso .img .bin .chd .zip .7z|
|NEC<br />SUPERGRAFX|**beetle_supergrafx**<br />beetle_pce_fast|sgfx| .pce .sgx .cue .ccd .chd .zip .7z|
|NEC<br />TURBOGRAFX 16|**beetle_pce_fast**<br />beetle_supergrafx|tg16| .pce .bin .zip .7z|
|NEC<br />TURBOGRAFX CD|**beetle_pce_fast**<br />beetle_supergrafx|tg16cd| .pce .cue .ccd .iso .img .bin .chd .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM|**fceumm**<br />nestopia|nes| .nes .unif .unf .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />FAMICOM|**nestopia**<br />fceumm|famicom| .nes .unif .unf .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />FAMICOM DISK SYSTEM|**nestopia**<br />fceumm|fds| .fds .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />GAME BOY|**gambatte**<br />sameboy<br />gearboy<br />tgbdual<br />mgba<br />vbam|gb| .gb .gbc .zip .7z|
|[NINTENDO<br />GAME BOY ADVANCE](System-Game-Boy-Advance)|**mgba**<br />beetle_gba<br />gpsp<br />vbam<br />vba_next|gba| .gba .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />GAME BOY COLOR|**gambatte**<br />sameboy<br />gearboy<br />tgbdual<br />mgba<br />vbam|gbc| .gbc .gb .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />GAME & WATCH|**gw**|gameandwatch| .mgw .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />POKÉMON MINI|**pokemini**|pokemini| .min .zip .7z|
|[NINTENDO<br />SUPER NINTENDO](System-Super-Nintendo-Entertainment-System)|**snes9x**<br />snes9x2002<br />snes9x2005_plus<br />snes9x2010<br />beetle_supafaust|snes| .smc .sfc .swc .fig .bs .st .gd3 .gd7 .dx2 .bsx .zip .7z|
|[NINTENDO<br />SUPER FAMICOM](System-Super-Nintendo-Entertainment-System)|**snes9x**<br />snes9x2002<br />snes9x2005_plus<br />snes9x2010<br />beetle_supafaust|sfc| .smc .sfc .swc .fig .bs .st .gd3 .gd7 .dx2 .bsx .zip .7z|
|[NINTENDO<br />SUPER NINTENDO MSU-1](System-Super-Nintendo-Entertainment-System)|**snes9x**<br />beetle_supafaust|snesmsu1| .smc .fig .bs .st .sfc .gd3 .gd7 .dx2 .bsx .swc .zip .7z|
|[NINTENDO<br />SATELLAVIEW](System-Super-Nintendo-Entertainment-System)|**snes9x**<br />snes9x2002<br />snes9x2005_plus<br />snes9x2010|satellaview| .smc .sfc .swc .fig .bs .st .gd3 .gd7 .dx2 .bsx .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />VIRTUAL BOY|**beetle_vb**|virtualboy| .vb .zip .7z|
|MAGNAVOX<br />ODYSSEY 2|**o2em**|odyssey| .bin .BIN .zip .7z|
|PHILIPS<br />VIDEOPAC|**o2em**|videopac| .bin .BIN .zip .7z|
|[PC (DOS x86)](System-MS-DOS)|**dosbox_pure**<br />dosbox_svn|pc| .dosz, disk images (iso, cue, img, ima, vhd) can be put into the .dosz|
|[PICO-8](System-Pico-8)|**pico8**|pico-8|.png .p8|
|[SONY<br />PLAYSTATION](System-Sony-PlayStation)|**pcsx_rearmed**<br />duckstation<br />swanstation|psx| .iso .bin .cue .img .pbp .mdf .toc .cbn .m3u .ccd .chd|
|SONY<br />PSP MINIS|**PPSSPPSDL**<br />ppsspp| pspminis | .iso .cso .pbp|
|SEGA<br />GAMEGEAR|**gearsystem**<br />genesis_plus_gx<br />picodrive<br />smsplus|gamegear| .gg .bin .gg .zip .7z|
|SEGA<br />GENESIS|**genesis_plus_gx**<br />genesis_plus_gx_wide<br />picodrive|genesis| .gen .md .sg .smd .bin .zip .7z|
|SEGA<br />NAOMI|**flycast**|naomi| .lst .bin .dat .zip .7z|
|SEGA<br />MASTER SYSTEM|**gearsystem**<br />genesis_plus_gx<br />picodrive<br />smsplus|mastersystem| .sms .bin .zip .7z|
|SEGA<br />MEGA DRIVE|**genesis_plus_gx**<br />genesis_plus_gx_wide<br />picodrive|megadrive<br />megadrive-japan| .gen .bin .md .sg .smd .zip .7z|
|SEGA 32X|**picodrive**|sega32x|.32x .7z .bin .md .smd .zip|
|SEGA CD|**genesis_plus_gx**<br />picodrive|segacd| .bin .chd .cue .iso|
|SEGA MEGA CD|**genesis_plus_gx**<br />picodrive|megacd| .bin .chd .cue .iso|
|SEGA<br />SG-1000|**gearsystem**<br />genesis_plus_gx<br />picodrive|sg-1000|.7z .bin .sg .zip|
|SEGA<br />SC-3000|**bluemsx**|sc-3000| .sg .bin .zip .7z|
|SNK<br />NEO-GEO|**fbneo**<br />mame2003<br />fbalpha2012|neogeo| .neo .7z .zip|
|SNK<br />NEO-GEO CD|**neocd**<br />fbneo|neocd| .chd .cue .iso|
|SNK<br />NEO-GEO POCKET|**beetle_ngp**<br />race|ngp| .ngp .ngc .zip .7z|
|SNK<br />NEO-GEO POCKET COLOR|**beetle_ngp**<br />race|ngpc| .ngc .zip .7z|
|WATARA<br />SUPERVISION|**potator**|supervision|.sv .zip|
|WELBACK HOLDINGS<br />MEGADUCK|**sameduck**|megaduck|.bin .zip .7z|
|TIC-80|**tic-80**|tic-80|.tic|
|UZEBOX|**uzem**|uzebox|.uze|
|GCE<br />VECTREX|**vecx**|vectrex| .bin .gam .vec .zip .7z|
|[SHARP<br />X68000](System-X68000)|**px68k**|x68000| .dim .img .d88 .88d .hdm .dup .2hd .xdf .hdf .cmd .m3u .zip .7z|
|SINCLAIR<br />ZX81|**81**|zx81|.tzx .p .zip .7z|
|SINCLAIR<br />ZX SPECTRUM|**fuse**|zxspectrum| .tzx .tap .z80 .rzx .scl .trd .zip .7z|

You can also view this (WIP) spreadsheet with information for each core, as well as if it requires bios or not: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1T962LmL0ci7Hs88TZT3iMtqdvzug4tL3ayTb0uoxijQ](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1T962LmL0ci7Hs88TZT3iMtqdvzug4tL3ayTb0uoxijQ)

Please Note that MAME and FBA screen ratio are not optimized as they should have been optimized on game basis (some are 4:3, some alre 3:2 some are vertical), so we decided to leave the default options.

## Low Performance Systems
These platforms, due to hardware limitation, are included and worked on, but will never work perfectly.
Some games/systems work almost perfectly, some others they may never work smoothly.

|System|Status|Core/Emu|ROM Path|Extension| 
|---|---|---|---|---|
|3DO|Only low performance|**opera**|3do|.iso .cue .bin .chd .7z|
|J2ME|Quite smooth playing|**freej2me**|j2me|.jar|
|NEC<br />PC-FX|Only low performance|**beetle_pcfx**|pcfx| .img .iso .ccd .cue| .img .iso .ccd .cue|
|NINTENDO N64|Some games run well, others are unplayable|mupen64plus<br />mupen64plus_next<br />**parallel_n64**<br />parallel_n64_gln64|n64| .z64 .n64 .v64|
|NINTENDO DS|2D Games almost fully playable|**drastic**|nds| .nds .zip|
|SEGA DREAMCAST|Some games run well, others are unplayable|**flycast**|dreamcast| .cdi .gdi .chd .zip .7z|
|SEGA SATURN|Most games are unplayable|**yabasanshiro**|saturn|.bin .cue .iso .chd .mdf|
|SONY PSP|Many games run well, especially with frameskip. Some games are unplayable |**PPSSPPSDL**<br />ppsspp|psp| .cso .iso .pbp|

*Games can also run internally from the gamedata/ppsspp/psp/GAMEDATA folder, this also allows DLC and custom textures to be added.

## Game Engines

|&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;System&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;|&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;Core/Emu&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;|ROM Path|Extension| 
|---|---|---|---|
|[DOOM](System-Doom)|**lzdoom**<br />prboom|doom|[.doom](System-Doom#how-to-create-a-doom-file)|
|EASYRPG|**easyrpg**|easyrpg| .ldb|
|OPENBOR|**openbor**|openbor| .pak|
|[SCUMMVM](System-ScummVM)|**scummvmsa**<br />scummvm|scummvm/games| .sh .svm .scummvm |
|SOLARUS|**solarus**|solarus|.solarus|
|[WOLFENSTEIN 3D](System-Wolfenstein-3D)|**ecwolf**|ecwolf|[.ecwolf](System-Wolfenstein-3D#how-to-create-a-ecwolf-file)|

## Ports
Some ports may be part of RetroArch as a core, but in this section is made to reflect the PORTS section in EmulationStation.

| Port |  Core/Emu  | ROM Path  |  Extension | 
|---|---|---|---|
|2048|2048|
|[CANNONBALL](Port-Cannonball)|cannonball|ports/cannonball/|.game .88|
|CAVESTORY|nxengine|ports/CaveStory/|.exe|
|COMMANDER KEEN|Commander Genius|ports/cgenius/games/keen1<br/>...<br/>ports/cgenius/games/keen9|.exe .ck|
|DIABLO|devilutionx|ports/diablo/|diabdat.mpq|
|DINOTHAWR|dinothawr|
|DUKE NUKEM 3D|eduke32|ports/eduke/ |.rts .grp|
|FLASHBACK|reminiscence| ports/reminiscence/ |.map .aba .seq lev|
|HYDRA CASTLE LABYRINTH|hcl|
|MR. BOOM (Bomberman Clone)|mrboom|
|PRINCE OF PERSIA|SDLPoP|
|TYRIAN|OpenTyrian|ports/opentyrian/|Content of [tyrian21.zip](https://github.com/opentyrian/opentyrian/wiki/Downloads#other)|
|QUAKE|tyrquake|ports/quake/id1/|.pak|
|RICK DANGEROUS|xrick|ports/xrick/|Content of data.zip|
|[VVVVVV](Port-VVVVVV)|VVVVVV|ports/VVVVVV/|data.zip|

If a game is not listed here you can check the community contribution section.

However we evaluate every user port contribution, for more information check here: Contributing-to-351ELEC#contributing-community-built-packages

## Community built packages

This is an incomplete list of the community contributed packages, the full raw list can be found [here](https://github.com/351ELEC/351ELEC/blob/main/metadata/packages.cfg).

|Game name|port name|Notes|
|---|---|---|
|Cave Story|cavestory|
|Drastic|drastic|See the [systems section](Supported-Emulators-and-Ports#low-performance-systems)|
|Block Attack|blockattack|
|Return to Castle Wolfenstein|iortcw|[Guide](https://github.com/JohnnyonFlame/handheld-iortcw/wiki/Installation---ArkOS)|
|The Ur-Quan Masters|uqm|
|SuperTux|supertux|
|C-Dogs|cdogs-sdl|

This packages are releases as-it-is, however you may join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/6XH8Q8RS) to have a chance to discuss them.
You may also request a port however your request may also be turned down so please do not be upset if this does happen.
You can even [contribute](Contributing-to-351ELEC) and port your favorite game.

## Collections

|&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;Platform&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;|&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;Core/Emu&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;&#x2800;|ROM Path|Extensions|
|---|---|---|---|
|CPS1|fbalpha2012<br />**fbneo**<br />mame2003_plus<br />mame2010<br />mame2015<br />AdvanceMame|cps1|.zip .7z|
|CPS2|fbalpha2012<br />**fbneo**<br />mame2003_plus<br />mame2010<br />mame2015<br />AdvanceMame|cps2|.zip .7z|
|CPS3|fbalpha2012<br />**fbneo**<br />mame2003_plus<br />mame2010<br />mame2015<br />AdvanceMame|cps3|.zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />GAME BOY HACKS|**gambatte**<br />sameboy<br />mgba<br />tgbdual<br />gearboy<br />vbam|gbh|.gb .gbc .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />GAME BOY COLOR HACKS|**gambatte**<br />sameboy<br />mgba<br />tgbdual<br />gearboy<br />vbam|gbch|.gbc .gb .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />GAME BOY ADVANCE HACKS|**mgba**<br />gpsp<br />vba_next<br />vbam|gbah| 	.gba .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />ENTARTAINMENT SYSTEM HACKS|fceumm<br />**nestopia**|nesh|.nes .unif .unf .zip .7z|
|NINTENDO<br />SUPER NINTENDO HACKS|**snes9x**<br />snes9x2010<br />snes9x2002<br />snes9x2005_plus<br />beetle_supafaust|snesh|.smc .sfc .swc .fig .bs .st .gd3 .gd7 .dx2 .bsx .zip .7z|
|SEGA<br />GAME GEAR HACKS|**gearsystem**<br />genesis_plus_gx<br />picodrive<br />smsplus|gamegearh|.gg .bin .gg .zip .7z|
|SEGA<br />GENESIS HACKS|**genesis_plus_gx**<br />genesis_plus_gx_wide<br />picodrive|genh|.gen .md .sg .smd .bin .zip .7z|

***

# BIOS 
Some platforms need bios files, these should go in /storage/roms/bios.
You can check which bios you’re missing directly on your device by pressing START, Games Settings, Missing Bios.

## What Doesn't Run
* SONY PLAYSTATION 2
* SONY PLAYSTATION 3
* SONY PLAYSTATION 4
* NINTENDO GAMECUBE
* NINTENDO 3DS
* NINTENDO WII/U
* MICROSOFT XBOX (any)
* ATARI JAGUAR
* ANYTHING NEWER

## Ending Notes
You can also view this (WIP) spreadsheet with information for each core, as well as if it requires bios or not: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1T962LmL0ci7Hs88TZT3iMtqdvzug4tL3ayTb0uoxijQ](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1T962LmL0ci7Hs88TZT3iMtqdvzug4tL3ayTb0uoxijQ)

## Credit
Thank you to @XargonWan, and the 351ELEC community for putting this page together.
Thank you to EmuELEC for the sources.
